
=head1 NAME

asn1template - Convert encoded ASN.1 structures into OpenSSL's
L<ASN1_generate_nconf(3)> configuration format

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    asn1template [-h] [-p] [-s] [-m] filename
    asn1template [-u] [-p] filename

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<asn1template> takes a DER or PEM encoded ASN.1 structure and outputs the
equivalent textual description that can be edited and later be fed to OpenSSL's
L<ASN1_generate_nconf(3)> function in order to build the equivalent DER encoded
ASN.1 structure.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 5

=item B<-h|--help>

Print out a brief B<h>elp message.

=item B<-p|--pem>

Switch input file format to B<P>EM, default is DER.

=item B<-s|--simple-labels>

Print B<s>imple numeric labels instead of full labels composed of offset, header
length and content length.

=item B<-m|--multi-root>

Process B<m>ultiple concatenated encoded structures from a single input file.

=item B<-u|--unwrap>

B<U>nwrap top-level SEQUENCE.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Convert a DER encoded file:

    asn1template DER_file

Convert a PEM encoded file:

    asn1template -p PEM_file

Convert a PEM encoded file using simplified labels:

    asn1template -p -s PEM_file

Convert a multi-root DER encoded file:

    asn1template -m DER_file

Unwrap top-level SEQUENCE from DER encoded file:

    asn1template -u DER_file

Unwrap top-level SEQUENCE from PEM encoded file:

    asn1template -u -p PEM_file


Print usage information:

    asn1template -h

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

B<asn1template> can be instructed to use an alternate B<openssl> binary by
setting the C<OPENSSL> environment variable.

I<Note>: depending on your setup, you might want to reference or preload
matching dynamic libraries such as B<libcrypto.so.X> and B<libssl.so.X> by
setting C<LD_LIBRARY_PATH> or C<LD_PRELOAD> environment variables.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<openssl-asn1parse(1)>, L<ASN1_generate_nconf(3)>

=head1 AUTHOR

asn1template was written William Robinet <willi@mrobi.net>

=cut
